===== The road ahead for Antimatter =====
What happened since the last update? For those who don’t want to navigate the internet or Discord in search of fresh information about the status of the private alpha, let’s do a wrap-up of what has been done and what’s coming for Antimatter. The first build of the private alpha (for a certain tier of backers) was released on April 15 this year, and as expected, the experience was extremely rough. Imagine software just barely maturing into its "game" form, with no balancing and nothing to get anyone on board. Antimatter was indeed first developed as a simulation, then a game, hence its strange state of being both very rough for the player but deep and wide in the simulation. The private alpha did not create a sufficient volume of testers, and understandably the initial enthusiasm quickly wore off. The demo featured a simple scenario set in the solar system During the Steam 4X Festival on August 18, I launched a public demo, allowing a larger sample of players to try the game. This gave another wave of feedback. People were harsh but involved and sometimes a bit passionate, but it resulted in a treasure of feedback, and for the first time I had solid data from a much larger pool of players. Since April’s first version, the game has had 13 updates , and due to the mature state of the codebase, development has now shifted to a more player-feedback-oriented cycle. What is on my plate? I will continue to release new demo versions, rough or not, to push this momentum forward. The volume of feedback will keep contributing to fixing the obvious and discovering all the strange edge cases. Reworking the planet view UI The next version of the demo is planned to be released within 2 months. This will clearly focus on the early experience, quality of life, and accessibility. It will also feature an overhaul of station building. UX work Kickstarter rewards I have planned to release the game’s keys to all backer tiers within 6 months. This will depend on the state of the game itself. I’d like to release all the keys once the game reaches a state where: Save/load system is stable The game has good tutorials The game has enjoyable gameplay loops The game has few game-breaking bugs, or they can be reliably recovered from a previous save Full accessibility, options, and all screen resolution support About the side-view part of the game You might be aware that the planetary side-view aspect of the game has been branched out from the main development and is still being developed silently. The end goal is to have 2 games capable of communicating together and sharing much of the data and simulation. I do not really document my work on this area yet, but I have found on my desktop these 2 old GIFs about a (tiny portion) of the work done on the side-view. Orbital bombardement while endlessly rebuilding This is a bit complicated to explain and I don’t want to lose focus on the immediate task, so I won’t dive into the details just yet. Just know that this project will stay alive as long as I am. I will make a detailed roadmap and dump all the progress made on this aspect once the focus has turned back to it. Following the progress If you want to follow the progress of the project, most information is published on the game’s Steam page . Antimatter’s Discord server also contains more details on development where I sometimes post sneak peeks. This is also where players and the community at large can get involved in the development of the game.

===== Private Alpha! (Build B0000) =====
Dear Backers, Today is a big day! I am currently sending out Steam keys to all tiers equal or above " Spoiled Lord ", giving you access to the private alpha (provided your reward tier includes it, of course). However , please note that the build is still pending validation from Steam. This delay is on me, I submitted it last week, a bit later than I should have. I’ll post a comment directly on this update as soon as the game goes live, so stay tuned, it could happen at any time. An important word of warning: the private alpha is very rough, there is no tutorial and it is not planned yet to save development overhead, but please post on Discord and I'll answer quickly and improve the game directly. Some entire parts are work-in-progress or in the middle of major revamps. There isn’t much “fun” gameplay just yet. Right now, my focus is on getting the core simulation running flawlessly. Once that foundation is solid, content will be added very rapidly . Also, be advised that the planet-side aspect (the side view) of the game is not part of this build. This aspect is being worked on a completely different development branch since 2023, I'll keep you updated on this, but for now I want to focus on what can be tested immediately. On the personal side, I’m now working part-time at my day job, which means I’ve finally gained more time to dedicate to Antimatter. Until recently, I could only work during evenings and weekends, but now I can work more. That said, there will still be some days when I’m unavailable. Please join the Discord server and let me know you're a Kickstarter backer with private alpha access. It's important that we have a direct line of communication and a dedicated space for feedbacks and discussions. I’ve also set up a GitHub repository for bug reports and feature requests: Discord: https://discord.com/invite/2v42fgS GitHub: https://github.com/Geoffroypir/Antimatter-BugsAndRequests I understand Discord isn’t everyone’s cup of tea, but I really hope to see you there — your feedback and playtesting are very valuable. ----------------------------------------------------------------- How to Activate a Steam Key Open Steam and log in to your account. Click on the "Games" menu (top left). Select "Activate a Product on Steam..." Click Next , then I Agree . Enter your Steam key (e.g., XXXX-YYYY-ZZZZ) and click Next . If you haven't received your key by 24h00z (15/04), please reach out to me through Kickstarter's messaging system, I'll sort it out for you.

===== Private alpha =====
This post is for backers only. Please visit Kickstarter.com and log in to read.

===== PRIVATE ALPHA! - And 2024 Wrap-up =====
This post is for backers only. Please visit Kickstarter.com and log in to read.

===== Shipyards =====
Let's do a quick ping on progress. It has already been 2 months since the last devlog, time flies. The focus lately has been on polishing, with particular attention to code structure and performance improvements. I have finally reached my performance goal, with drastic improvements by multiple factors, especially for large universes. While I try to avoid adding new features and focus on wrapping up an alpha, there are still a few outstanding features being added. Here is the tip of the iceberg: Shipyards and Automation Queuing orders directly from the military screen instead of micromanaging each shipyard. Shipyards will also attempt to fulfill fleet templates if no specific orders are given. Improved Production Lines Production lines have been reworked to make them easier to manage and visualize, supporting batched production versus individual recipes. Regional Features Regional features on planets can now be exploited by outposts and cities, providing effects and modifiers. Surface exploration has become even more important, as these features can yield valuable resources. Even replicant nests can now be exploited, they produce parts and occasionally replicant spacecrafts. Personal Finances New interactions and mechanics for personal finances have been added, including loans. Boarding & Encounters Spacecraft can now be boarded, utilizing a party-vs-party combat system. This system is also used for all forms of dynamic or scripted encounters. Better Missions Generation The mission system has been completely revamped, with better generation. Better UI for the Universe The UI for universe display has been reworked.

===== Military =====
New Military Screen ( Devlog on Steam ) Most of the military aspects in Antimatter can be automated and controlled through a single screen. Theatres It is possible to automate force allocation and mission creation by setting theatres. Most objects in the galaxy can be designated as a theatre. Depending on the scope, different missions will be executed. For example, a "Strike" theatre set on a star system will mean conquest of the system by destroying all enemies within it. A "Strike" theatre on a planet means orbital bombardment, while a strike on a spacecraft triggers a search-and-destroy mission. Available fleets will automatically assign themselves to a theatre and create missions accordingly. Even if automation is turned off, the AI will still suggest theatre options it has planned. A single click is enough to turn these suggestions into an actionable strategy. Fleets It is now possible to create fleet templates and let the AI replenish them automatically. Templates consist of configurable formations, allowing flexibility in the types of spacecraft that can be included. Each fleet has a role that determines the type of theatres it will engage with. Fleets also have replenishment thresholds, which dictate the required strength to deploy and when they should return to base for reinforcements. Independent Forces Independent forces are individual spacecraft performing missions autonomously. Assigning these forces will mobilize available ships. Police forces will patrol owned systems and police theatres, while explorers will survey new planets. Operatives execute special missions such as extortion (piracy), waking replicant nests, destroying replicant nests, swaying natives, or purging natives. Outlaws This screen also displays characters currently outlawed by your organization. You can even track them if they are detected by the organization's sensors. Direct Orders I have added more contextual orders and bound them to mouse actions. This functions similarly to how it works in RTS games: you select a spaceship and give orders directly with the mouse. This is a powerful addition, offering much more tactical depth. These orders can only be given to spacecraft that are under your command. The path to private alpha I am still in the polishing phase, but sometimes I come across areas of the game that require a more significant rework. The military AI, which handles fleet formation and AI mission assignments, was previously a "behind-the-scenes" feature. This has now been rewritten and refined, with all aspects of the AI exposed to the UI.

===== Endgame =====
As usual, as for the past few months, nothing truly flashy or groundbreaking has been added, and I am still consolidating the game for the upcoming private alpha. However, among the hundreds of refactorings, performance improvements, bug fixes, tweaks, small additions, and the countless user interface and quality of life improvements, here are a few highlights: The Gate The gate is a discoverable and seemingly inert and isolated space artifact that initially behaves as a "trade node." If fed with enough hull components and microchips, it will then activate, opening Pandora's box for humanity by allowing the replicants to invade the human part of the galaxy. Replicants expansion The replicant threat is worsening. Although they remain a slow-moving threat without antimatter or hyperdrive technology, they represent an inexorable force of destruction. On its way to a fleet mining mission, this replicant mobile smelter, supported by its fleet of miners will gather and process ores into "exometal" and then feed the closest mothership or gate. If activated, the gate will regularly spawn new threats to the galaxy and reinforce its bridgehead by building defensive stations around it. One discreet yet dangerous threat is the replicant agents. These small ships have a special mission to travel to specific dormant replicant nests on planets, awaken them, and rally them to the main force. A tiny replicant agent, on its way to wake a dormant nest The player can significantly contribute to the war effort by tracking and eliminating these agents. If left alone, these agents can potentially raise massive enemy fleets of replicants from within human-controlled space. This massive fleet just appeared at the gate. It will take months to reach its target. Other potential threats include mining fleets, strike fleets, and patrols, with the worst being a mothership fleet. Collaboration with the Replicants Humans are not necessarily enemies to the Replicants. While the Replicants aim to exterminate the worms and everyone who serves them (or lives too close to them) and seize the antimatter source for themselves, they will seek allies or try to instill apathy among humans. The gate acts as an infinite and profitable trade node, consuming raw materials and resources to build spacecrafts. Feeding this gate increases the Replicants' ability to spawn more threats (and enriches greedy merchants). To slow down the Replicant expansion, it is possible to eliminate everything that could potentially feed the gate, including all trade ships neutral or allied to the replicants and, of course, the Replicant's mining spacecraft. Better Repair Repairing has been overhauled to its definitive (?) version and is no longer passive only. It is possible to instantly repair part or all of the ship's hull and modules when docked at a space station, outpost, or city. Revisited passenger transport Nothing really new for passengers, except that it should have reached its near-final version. Migration simulation should also be finalized. While tourism and soldier transport are integrated, they are not yet simulated. AI "crew" A new module has been introduced that replaces the bridge and eliminates the need for a crew. Replicant spacecraft rely on this module. Generally, AI-controlled spacecraft are less efficient because they cap the crew modifiers and are vulnerable to total shutdown if the module is destroyed. However, the advantages include cheaper maintenance, no need for crew quarters or a bridge, which also translates to reduced weight. Measure tool The scale of the game is so vast that distances can be hard to evaluate at first glance. Combined with my general reluctance to add fantasy space particles or clouds (a questionable marketing decision), this results in a black, empty space with limited means to appreciate the scale. The tool is easy to use (Ctrl+right-click) and displays the distance; it also works on the planisphere. While humanity in Antimatter has descended into barbarism, thankfully it hasn't regressed to an imperial system. (I had to hit the printscreen key with my nose to take that screenshot) It also works on the planisphere Weapon Mode It is possible to configure weapon groups so that some are controlled by the AI while others are under human control. Threat detection and fleeing Spaceship crews have a basic instinct for self-preservation. Thanks to significant performance improvements, I have introduced a more accurate evaluation of the balance of power in a given theater. Spacecraft, especially commercial ones, will flee if the balance of power is unfavorable and if the spacecraft is in poor condition. The traits of the captain also play a role, with boldness often having an antagonistic relationship with life expectancy.

===== Nukes &amp; Natives =====
For the past 2 months work has continued across both the surface and the universe aspect of the game. Once more I'll focus on the latter, but I hope to talk soon about the surface (side-view) part which has seen huge progress lately. Since a few months, the development routine way aimed at polishing, UI improvements, code consolidation, which often comes alongside some rewrite of game mechanism, AI, AI, AI and more AI (yes, writing AIs takes time, especially for economy). A perfectly functional feature is often redone 4-5 times during its existence, due to code structure consideration, gameplay and often perceived redundance. This is quite normal and a sane way of developing a complex system, and is the primary reason why it takes so long. This is also why, despite my perceived imminence of an alpha release of the game, that I am abstaining from giving any release date yet. I cannot ill-afford any fundamental flaws in the program to be carried to an alpha, and pay the interests of any technical debt in the years following the release. Therefore, despite my impression that I can announce it now, coming soon will remain the release "date" until contradictory notice. But enough of my useless talk. Along with polish, some new stuff were carefully added. I'll talk about it briefly. This is a little showcase of what was done, I emphasize the fact that it represents a fraction of the work, as to not discredit the importance of other aspects. Personal Points I have replaced "Political Points" (which was messy and intertwined) with "Personal Points" which is a pool passively used to train skills, divert money, increase influence, improve reputation, rally toward your ideology, fight corruption but also perform various one-time actions, such as political actions in the parliament. It will also be used (not implemented yet) for plot and plot defense. This is essentially the "off-time" daily actions your character will take. He can also do nothing and save these personal points. Orbital bombardment It is now possible to bombard planets and asteroids. It is similar to targeting a spaceship (here I select a specific city located on the surface of the planet). The warheads cause damage to one or more "tiles" on the planet, targeting a city means that the projectile will impact the city's controlled tiles, thus damaging its infrastructure and causing casualties among the population, including any existing native population. In addition to soot which is raised with high-yield impacts, I have also added radiation (planet-wide or specific to a tile) which affects habitability. The radiation yield is of course specific to the weapon. Due to the atmospheric simulation terraformation and the new simulation of natural disasters, a bombardment can ruin the planet's biosphere permanently. Native populations Natives are now much, much more detailed but also optimized as they no longer take a toll to performances. They are separated into 6 factions/classes, one could mod additional "classes" into alien species if they wanted. Each faction has its own set of bonuses and maluses (some are nasty !), production, and political leaning. The dominating faction weights much more than others. For example, the Urghosts, with their minds alienated to the Urghogh's (lack of) will are the worst neighbors you could have. They are not aggressive but produce next to nothing and are almost impossible to assimilate. Natives are no longer just a value on the planet as they concentrate in visitable settlements. Trade is important with natives as they sell at low prices and may buy your excess production. Improved diplomacy & war War is finishing in its initial implementation, it tracks spacecraft destroyed, and civilian and military personnel casualties separately as I plan later to simulate revanchism and war crimes. It has a war exhaustion and war goal system. This includes the diplomatic deal system where peace can be negotiated at any time of the war among the main belligerents. Relations are now much more dynamic. Treaties were overhauled and expanded as well, with multiple criteria. Improved escape pod It is possible to take an escape pod from a spacecraft, this also replaces the previous uncontrollable escape pod when the spacecraft blows up. Due to the fact this escape pod is a spaceship by itself, the initial code considered that having your escape pod blown up would spawn ... another escape pod. This matriochka bug was reluctantly corrected. Colony & organization template I consider that the best paradigm in procedural generation is to have "guided" randomness, this is why I have added a moddable template system that actively attempts to populate the galaxy with custom-created cities and organizations given many criteria. Consequently, much content was added, giving some flavor and background to the universe without betraying the sandbox nature of the game. This change came alongside yet another deep work on the historical generation of the universe (the thing that pre-simulate the universe during thousands of years)

===== 2023 - 2024 Video Devlog ! =====
This is a video devlog recapitulating the "universe" part of development of Antimatter from 2023 to 2024. Massive work has also been done on the surface aspect but will be shown on another dedicated devlog, with explanations on how it will communicate with the rest of the simulation. This is not an exhaustive devlog, a lot more has been done in many other aspects of the game and simulation. But here this is a rare occasion to show some parts of it as a video. Disclaimer : -The entire video depicts functional gameplay in a fully simulated world. -Nothing is scripted for the video. -Nothing presented is a mockup or a placeholder.

===== Politics =====
Continuing polishing the game (which is not the most exciting thing to talk about)... But this is still an occasion to write about what has been developed for the political system, which has greatly improved from the initial system . Characters have a major role in the living universe in Antimatter and they even play the ever-changing political game. The post-Antimatter crisis is bringing the intellectuals and/or the idealists to the first scene, much has to be done in a world where political tradition is banished to the domination of the Urghoghs (giant worms). In this uncharted political land, intellectuals unburied (sometimes literally) the old ideologies from the XXI, XX, and XIXth centuries as the period of Urghigh obscurantism met a convenient analogy to the European's Enlightenment era. The political scene is therefore dominated by diverse ideologies, in the most naive way. The old world's political legacy is religiously followed to the letter, even the neo-classic estheticism and symbolism mimicked with nostalgia in the haste to bring humanity to a new order. The Assembly The assembly represents all the voting members of an organization, separated into chambers that determine the voting power of the member. A parliament can be extended or reduced with policies. Each seat in the assembly is occupied by an actual character. Ranks & Chambers A member may be promoted or kicked out of a chamber depending on his influence and the influence of his peers. A rank can have requirements such as the necessity to be landed, be a captain, have a certain education, etc... These requirements are to be voted as a new policy. Political Parties Political parties gather like-minded persons, who share common ethics. While similar in name to the modern era's political parties, these parties have strong differences. they are an attempt to parrot the old world's political system but are still an emanation of their time. The Urghost party is the exception, they will oppose almost everything. A political party has its own agenda of policies to enact (or to oppose). The resulting ethic of the party is determined by its set of desired and opposed policies. Votes and Elections A vote is taken with all members, many factors play a role in the acceptance of a policy, but generally, a member will vote for his political party. A debate can extend for weeks or even months. The player himself can be involved in politics just like any other character, he can propose the enactment or revocation of a policy by spending political power or debate against or in favor of a vote.
